So who is accessibility for?
Because I think sometimes
the idea of accessibility,
when you're a developer or a technologist,
sometimes the purpose of accessibility
can get sort of lost in the messaging.
Of like,
we're gonna add these attributes and
we're gonna make our HTML accessible and
things.
But we wanna understand the goal,
which is to prevent and
remove barriers to access for
people with disabilities.
So for people who can't see,
people who can't use a mouse,
people who navigate by voice for
various reasons.
There are techniques that we can
incorporate that are not all
that challenging,
they're just forgotten some of the time.
Some of the techniques are more
advanced and more challenging.
But there are also some
basics that as tech leads,
if we can remind people to include
the basics and do a regular workflow for
accessibility, I bet we
could make a huge impact.
So that's kind of my personal
challenge today, is to help you all
help other people, cuz it's like this
thing grows and I'm so into that.
So we'll dive deeper into
kind of how to do that,
how to work with people,
how to persuade throughout this workshop.
I have kind of a recent example
of increasing awareness.
I gave a presentation at my job, I work
at an agency called Principal Studios,
and I went there to be a more
general web developer,
not an accessibility specialist.
But I could see that, that knowledge that
I have with accessibility would really,
like I had to share it.
I'm seeing things in code reviews,
I'm seeing things just in historical
practices of what's been allowed to ship
in the code base, and I had to speak up.
So I did, and my coworkers are smart and
passionate and caring people.
And when I described why we need
to include heading elements, so
H1 through H6 headings, which we'll
talk all about today, my coworker asked,
if it's so critical to get the right
level, what if we just don't use headings?
And so, I have a meme on the screen that
says your headings won't be the wrong
level if you don't use headings,
kind of haha, it's funny, but
use headings though, really.
And when I pointed out the reason
why we use headings and
other semantic HTML I
shared with them is that,
people who can't see the screen have
a much easier time getting an overall
picture of what's on a page when
there are headings to digest.
You can navigate by headings,
you can see a hierarchy of the content.
They're also great for SEO, and
reader modes, and other things.
But I really tried to stress that
the importance of this is for
a disabled person's experience.
And my co-workers were like,
I never thought of it like that before,
I get it now.
And so that kind of cooperative,
open-minded understanding, and
knowledge sharing is really fetal for
getting people more aware of accessibility
so they understand the purpose.
We wanna be friendly messengers,
which can be hard sometimes, but
whenever possible, I think we'll have
more success when we can try and
bring people along and try to make it.
This is serious, it's important, but
we also wanna have good
professional relationships too.
So, it's kind of a balance.
At least that's how I approach it.
But I was really encouraged by the
experience of sharing some information,
communicating why it's important.
And people just go, I didn't know,
cool, thanks for telling me.
And then you move on [LAUGH]
hopefully with headings [LAUGH].
So what brought you to this workshop?
We got some really great stories,
some good motivations from you all so far.
So I think for anyone watching,
consider what brought you here if you
haven't already,
maybe it's personal interest or curiosity.
Maybe it's a career growth area
that you're thinking about, or
there's a job you really wanna go for.
Or maybe it's a professional requirement,
like you had requirements at the 11th
hour or hopefully earlier [LAUGH].
And so whatever the reason, I am super
stoked that you are here because we
have the opportunity to make
a difference in tech with this topic.
So accessibility is the right thing to do,
in my opinion,
I'm pretty positive about that, but
it's also about upholding people's civil
rights, people's civil rights to access.
And I think that detail tends to
get lost in the message when we're
focused more on the tech,
really, that's the purpose.
It's also a component of quality software.
When we can write software that is robust,
it can respond to new user input events
that we didn't even think about ahead
of time, but our code is architected so
we can respond to any events we want.
We can send it any initial
state we want from anywhere.
When we can write robust
software that's accessible, well,
it's less costly to maintain because
we're not having to jam these features in
after the fact like trying to add mobile
support after the fact, that can be hard.
So the earlier you can
incorporate accessibility,
the more successful it will be.
But sometimes people need more convincing
because there's all this debt,
because it's going to be expensive, or
because people don't think that people
with disabilities are part
of their audience.
So there is a business
side to accessibility,
I have a link in my slides
from a resource from the W3C.
So if you wanna go down that route,
you have stakeholders to convince,
you could bookmark that.
There are some misconceptions
that it's too costly or
too niche to be worthwhile and
it does require some additional time.
So a big enterprise that I worked with,
their estimates were about upfront for
someone of their size, they would
pad estimates by about 30% upfront.
And that was throughout the whole software
development life cycle, through planning,
design, engineering, QA, all of it.
And so that seems like a lot, but the cost
of not doing it can be way higher.
If you have to redo everything, if you
have to hire more people, if you have to
totally re-platform and start over,
that's going to be way more expensive.
And like, even if you don't re-platform,
but you're just trying to chip away at
these bugs and these defects, that's
what they're called in accessibility,
you're trying to keep up
with those all the time.
It's kind of hard to get other feature
work done because you're trying to squash
bugs and trying to clean up
stuff that if it had been
planned better in the beginning,
maybe it would be easier.
So that upfront investment, it really is
an investment, and so that's a trade-off.
As tech leads, as developers,
we're not always in positions to make
those decisions but we do estimate scope.
We do scoping and planning and
backlog grooming and
all that stuff, so we can give input.
And so if you can put it in,
I don't know, numerical terms,
quantify it somehow, sometimes that's
what leaders want to hear about.
So we really can't afford not to do it,
especially for big enterprises that
have compliance obligations,
which we'll talk about as well.
So that compliance, that risk,
that could be a motivator for
an organization, and lots of
organizations have different reasons.
Sometimes executives have a personal
connection to accessibility,
a good example is Satya Nadella
who's the CEO of Microsoft.
He had some family members
with disabilities and
that experience as a leader, I think
has really affected team priorities.
I think that's how these
decisions get made
sometimes is that there's
a reason that they get it.
That's not always gonna happen,
but companies do have,
organizations I should say, it's not
always just companies, but organizations
have legal risk and compliance obligations
that can really bubble this up.
It depends what type
of business you're in.
If you're anything procured by the federal
government in the United States or
Canada, the UK and Australia,
at least to name some,
and that depends on laws that
are on the books a lot of times.
If you're in education, you probably have
to do some things for accessibility,
I mean, you would think.
It's amazing how many opportunities
are missed for accessibility, so
that's why we're here,
is to try and make that better.
There is also market pressure for
accessibility.
So especially in the United States
where we have a litigious culture,
a lot of accessibility is
decided in the courts.
I don't love that part of it,
to be honest, but that is a reality,
at least in the U.S. So,
the market pressure could come from you
lost business because your
product isn't accessible and
somebody else's is, and so
that could be losing contracts.
You could have a competitor
that got sued in the U.S.
and that could give you some
market pressure of, well,
they're fixing their stuff,
we should be thinking about that, too.
We could be next, you know?
So that kind of competitive
landscape could at least get
maybe a little bit of movement.
And so there's a lot to learn
about the legal side, and
depending on what country you're in, there
are different laws, if there are any.
So you could read up on
the legal requirements for
accessibility in your area.
And someone I recommend
following is Lainey Feingold.
She's a disability rights
attorney from California,
she's been in the accessibility
community for decades.
I love her.
And she has a lot of really great
articles and some information
about global accessibility laws,
so you can check those out.
So the goal of this workshop,
at the heart of it,
I really want to instill these concepts.
I want you to understand
the core requirements for
digital accessibility in the enterprise.
So we'll get tactical, how,
what are we looking for?
What do we not want to let ship?
And as tech leads, you should be able to
advise team members on how to produce
accessible quality software.
It's like if you're leading,
you should be able to give advice.
Maybe you're not totally up to
speed on every technique, but
you at least know the concepts and you
could point people in the right direction.
That would be the goal for today.
So, if you're a Windows user, Windows is
a very valuable testing environment for
accessibility, especially with what
we'll cover today for screen readers.
So, if you are a Windows user, you
should download the NVDA screen reader.
It's free, open source, it's used a lot.
It's actually more popular
than Voiceover on the Mac.
I am a Mac user as well, but I still test
with Windows using a virtual machine.
So just something to put
on your software list,
if you have VMs at work that you can use,
it's super helpful and seamless.
I use parallels on my Mac,
we'll probably fire it up today.
And that will allow you to test things
in a Windows screen reader that you
simply just can't test that same way with
Voiceover because they work differently.
And I'll tell you why a little bit later.
And parallels comes
with a Windows license.
I just had to reinstall it on this
new machine and it was really easy.
So, check that out if you are a Mac user.
You may want to remap some of your
laptop keys if you are a Mac user.
So, in Windows keyboards
you have an insert key and
I actually have a physical Windows
keyboard that I use at my home office and
that has an insert key but
Mac keyboards do not.
So a lot of people will map their
caps lock key to be the insert key,
it's kind of just like a modifier key that
you can hold when you test with NVDA.
But I actually didn't have to remap
anything when I installed parallels this
last week so it seems maybe they
ironed that out, I'm not sure.
And it was also very awesome in parallels,
something that had changed from previous
is that I could pull up my file system and
local host stuff on the Windows side
pretty easily, so that was cool.